## Deliberations on inclusion of "race" as variable
In response to my February 16 email:
"everyone should send me an individual email with (1) your weekly update and (2) you’re considered opinion about how we should incorporate race into the models (e.g., white-black-multiracial-other? white alone–black and black multiracial-nonblack multiracial and others? White-nonwhite (though, as I said, I think that’s problematic for multiple reasons)? white and nonblack multiracial-black and black multiracial-black/white multiracial (Bharat's suggestion, though I may have botched it)? include non-exclusive binary indicators? Something else?"

* I support White-Black-"Race that has the third number of counts in the dataset” - Others. 
* When incorporating race into our study, I think we should use the white-black-multiracial-other method of creating groups. If we divide into more subgroups, the sample sizes of each will be very small, to the point where it is hard to draw conclusions. This configuration allows us to highlight the group discussed the most in the initial paper, black children.
* In terms of how we should incorporate race into our model, I think it would be good to run through a general variable for race and then a more specific variable for race through the model, to gauge any macro and micro disparities that exist. For the general variable for race, I do think there is weight in creating a white and non-white variable for the sake of gauging the full impact of whiteness on the system compared to those who are not white. As I know that this might not be favored, creating a white, black and multiracial variable could be a compromise. For the more specific variable, I think it would be effective to make a variable coding for white alone, black and black multiracial, nonblack multiracial and others. 
* In my opinion, I think it is better to have white, black, multiracial and others. Since discrimination at decision points is a result of how the others perceive you, it may be less important to be too specific to white, white-multiracial, black, black-multiracial, and others. Since any multiracial (black or white) will be treated as multiracial.
* I think there is a case to be made for comparing white children and children of color, including multiracial children. In Charlottesville, the racial divide and disparity tend to be black/white. In my experiences, multiracial black children tend to be taken as black. But I think there’s also an argument to be made about levels of privilege and keeping it separate. I might go through some other studies to see. 
